THE VERDICT by David Mamet NT.  FIRST FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY  working-class funeral in progress. THIRTY PEOPLE and an inexpensive bier SEEN from the back of the hall. ANGL A MAN's back FILLS the SCREEN.  He is dressed in a black suit;his hands are clasped behind him.  ANOTHER MAN stands next to him. The Second Man reaches behind the First Man's back and puts a discreetly folded ten-dollar bill into his hands.These Two Men from the front.  Both somber, in their early fifties.  They begin to walk down the aisle of the funeral parlor.
The WIDOW.  A woman in her late fifties sitting by the bier receiving condolences.  The Two Men approach her.  The First Man (the recipient of the money) speaks:Mrs. Dee, this is Frank Galvin --a very good friend of ours, and a very fine attorney.It's a shame about your husband, Mrs. Dee.The Widow nods. I knew him vaguely through the Lodge.  He was a wonderful man.(shakes head in sympathy)It was a crime what happened to him.  A crime.  If there's anything that I could do to help ...
GALVIN removes a business card from his jacket pocket and hands it to her as if he were giving her money.  (i.e., "Take it.  Really.  I want you to have it ..."  She takes the card.  Beat.  (thoughtfully 
realizes he is usurping her time)Well ... He shakes her hand and moves on. Galvin sitting in the deserted coffee shop in his raincoat. Reading a section of the paper.  He picks up his teacup, drinks.  Lowers it to the table.Galvin twists tea bag around a spoon to extract last drops of  tea.  His hand moves to his felt pen lying on the table.  He  moves his hand to the paper, open at the obituary section.  We  SEE several names crossed out.  He circles one funeral listing.Galvin sitting, raises cup of tea to his lips.  Looks around deserted coffee shop.  Sighs.Galvin outside a second funeral home.  WORKING-CLASS PEOPLE 
entering, Galvin enters the home.Galvin, coming down the aisle toward the front, shrugging himself out of his overcoat, he approaches the BEREAVED WIDOW sitting by the front of the home, he extracts his card from his pocket, starts to speak.  He is stopped by the WIDOW'S SON, a hefty man in his mid-forties, who interjects himself between Galvin and the widow.
The seedy, disorganized small office, Galvin in shirt-sleeves opening a file cabinet.  He takes out an armload of files,  carries them to a wastebasket and throws them in.  He sits on his desk, as if exhausted by his effort, pours from a whiskey  bottle into a large water glass, downs the glass.  He has been  drinking for some time.  He starts -- stumbling back to the file cabinet.  On the way his eye is caught by his degrees  hanging on the wall.  He stumbles to them, picks them up and walks over to the wastebasket and throws them in.  He goes back to the file cabinet, the phone starts ringing.  Galvin  lets it ring, continues emptying the files into the wastebasket,  tearing some of them up as he does so.  He repeats softly to  himself, as a litany, "It doesn't make a bit of difference, it doesn't make a bit of difference ..."  He starts back to the desk for the bottle, knocks the still-ringing phone off the desk.  He pours himself a drink.  As he downs it we hear --  softly -- from the phone on the floor:  a MAN'S VOICE.  "Frank.   Frank.  Frank.  Goddamnit.  Are you there ...?  Frank ..."  
Galvin pays no attention.  Drinks his drink and gazes at the wall -- now empty of degrees.
